Apache:
Apache is a popular open-source, cross-platform web server that is, by the numbers, the most popular web server in existence. 
It’s actively maintained by the Apache Software Foundation.Some high-profile companies using Apache include Cisco, IBM, Salesforce,
General Electric, Adobe, VMware, Xerox, LinkedIn, Facebook, Hewlett-Packard, AT&T, Siemens, eBay, and many more (source).
In addition to its popularity, it’s also one of the oldest web servers, with its first release all the way back in 1995.
Many cPanel hosts utilize Apache today. Like other web servers, Apache powers the behind-the-scenes aspects of serving your
website’s files to visitors.Because Apache doesn’t perform as well in some benchmarks, especially for static websites or websites
with high traffic, Kinsta uses the NGINX web server instead of Apache. Though NGINX hasn’t been around for as long as Apache, 
it’s quickly grown in popularity and market share since its launch in 2004.
How Does Apache Work? Web Server Basics Explained
While there’s a lot of complexity underpinning how a web server functions, the basic job of all web servers is to accept requests 
from clients (e.g. a visitor’s web browser) and then send the response to that request 
The Apache web server has modules which add more functions to its software, such as MPM (for handling multi-processing modes) 
or mod_ssl for enabling SSL v3 and TLS support. Some common features seen in Apache include:
.htaccess
IPv6
FTP
HTTP/2
Perl, Lua, and PHP
Bandwidth throttling
WebDAV
Load balancing
URL rewriting
Session tracking
Geolocation based on IP address
Ngnix:
NGINX, pronounced like “engine-ex”, is an open-source web server that, since its initial success as a web server, is now 
also used as a reverse proxy, HTTP cache, and load balancer.Some high-profile companies using NGINX include Autodesk,
Atlassian, Intuit, T-Mobile, GitLab, DuckDuckGo, Microsoft, IBM, Google, Adobe, Salesforce, VMWare, Xerox, LinkedIn, Cisco,
Facebook, Target, Citrix Systems, Twitter, Apple, Intel, and many more (source).NGINX was originally created by Igor Sysoev,
with its first public release in October 2004. Igor initially conceived the software as an answer to the C10k problem, which is
a problem regarding the performance issue of handling 10,000 concurrent connections.Because its roots are in performance
optimization under scale, NGINX often outperforms other popular web servers in benchmark tests, especially in situations
with static content and/or high concurrent requests, which is why Kinsta uses NGINX to power its hosting.
How Does NGINX Work?
NGINX is built to offer low memory usage and high concurrency. Rather than creating new processes for each web request,
NGINX uses an asynchronous, event-driven approach where requests are handled in a single thread.
With NGINX, one master process can control multiple worker processes. The master maintains the worker processes,
while the workers do the actual processing. Because NGINX is asynchronous, each request can be executed by the worker 
concurrently without blocking other requests.

Some common features seen in NGINX include:

Reverse proxy with caching
IPv6
Load balancing
FastCGI support with caching
WebSockets
Handling of static files, index files, and auto-indexing
TLS/SSL with SNI
NGINX vs Apache Usage Stats
Apache is another popular open-source web server. In terms of raw numbers, Apache is the most popular web server in existence and is used by 47% of all websites with a known web server, according to W3Techs.

While Apache is the most popular overall option, NGINX is actually the most popular web server among high-traffic websites.

When you break down usage rates by traffic, NGINX powers:

56.1% of the 100,000 most popular sites
63.2% of the 10,000 most popular sites
57% of the 1,000 most popular sites
In fact, NGINX is used by some of the most resource-intensive sites in existence, including Netflix, NASA, and even WordPress.com.
